---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Staying Current - Cybersecurity Threats
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-03-15
labels:
  - Cybersecurity
  - Ethics
  - Rootkits
  - Ransomware
---

  Staying Current 2
  
With technology becoming ever prevalent in our everyday lives, it’s no surprise that today’s cyber environment is plagued with a multitude of malevolent forces. These forces include the ZeroAccess Rootkit and the Cryptolocker Ransomware Exploit; two programs that have a history of plaguing users’ devices.

In an effort to understand the ZeroAccess Rootkit, one must first understand what a rootkit is. The term “rootkit” contains the stem “root” which stands for “root access”, AKA administrative capabilities. This is simply a piece of malware that is able to remain undetected while stealing a devices information, like passwords and credit card numbers. In addition to this, they are also able to download and conceal other malicious programs. For example, you could have a Rootkit that installs a different trojan giving you a “Raid Shadow Legends” advertisement every 23 seconds. They are also able to get into a device’s hard-drive boot sector and therefore crack your devices’ encryption. Rootkits are able to do this by injecting themselves into a program, or worse yet, by becoming part of your OS’s kernel, or nuclei. This means the malware is not only invisible to antivirus programs, but also has access to control your computer’s hardware. Rootkits can infect a plethora of devices including windows machines, apple computers, and even smartphones. ZeroAccess is classified as a botnet, which is a network of devices that can be remotely accessed by an attacker. This means the attacker can remotely access a victim’s device and can use it to do various tasks, like bitcoin mining and click fraud. It is often the case that devices affected by botnets run slower than their uninfected counterparts, as the device is now running additional tasks that benefit the botmaster, or controller of the botnet. One distinct trait of ZeroAccess is that it has peer-to-peer infrastructure, meaning all the information is transferred and stored from device to device, instead of being located in one centralized server. This malware is able to spread by spam e-mails, trojan-downloaders, files on person-to-person file sharing platforms, and exploit kits. (Exploit kits scan web-browsers and find vulnerabilities to deliver a malicious payload. This type of malware was used in 2013 on websites including www.federalnewsradio.com and can be purchased in crimeware markets.) Another main contributor to the spread of ZeroAccess is that botmasters are able to pay third parties to infect devices. In addition to this, the botnet itself generates revenue for the botmaster. This is done through techniques like bit-coin mining, and more frequently, click fraud, which is where infected machines send HTTP requests to specific URLs. To summarize, this means both the process of infecting devices and having remote access capabilities to the network of infected device is profitable. This also generates revenue for the advertisement companies whose ads are being clicked, providing an incentive for advertisement companies to work with botmasters. As for mitigating risk or impact caused by ZeroAccess Rootkits, both situational awareness and following your company’s Security Protocol will always heed good results. Another way to mitigate risk of exposure to rootkits is to refrain from downloading any driver or driver updates from third parties (instead of your device manufacturer), as it is often the case that rootkits are downloaded through driver instillations and updates.

Cryptolocker is a ransomware trojan that was released in fall 2013. Ransomware, a type of malware, is often spread through vessels like infected email attachments and trojan horses. It then uses its access capabilities to lock a specific portion of the user’s computer or data, sometimes even restricting the user from using any part of the device and then demanding payment before returning it to the user. Other types of ransomware can fool a user into thinking his/her device is infected and will demand payment before fixing the problem. Cryptolocker is a type of ransomware that encrypts a user’s files and demands payment to unencrypt the files. Like most ransom negotiations, if the user doesn’t pay the ransom in time, the victim (or in this case the data), will be disposed of. Cryptolocker had a specific modus operandi. After infecting a device, the original Cryptolocker program would encrypt a user’s files, then a program would launch and demand the user to pay $100-$300 within 3-4 days through Bitcoin or MoneyPak vouchers. This program would also disable the user’s ability to run .exe files until the program deletes the user’s Shadow Copies. This is to prevent the user from backing-up their files. Cryptolocker uses a public encryption key on a Command and Control server, where the decryption key is also stored. As for which files were affected, Cryptolocker searches for over 40 different file extensions when encrypting files. The payment confirmation is done by typing a code into the CL pop-up. Unfortunately for cunning victims, invalid codes will advance the payment deadline, making this a problem unsolvable by brute-force. Cryptolocker was effective because many people often neglected, and still neglect, to back up their data and are willing to pay the ransom to protect precious files like documents, pictures, and spreadsheets. CL was effectively spread via email by disguising as customer support emails harboring malicious zip files. These malicious emails range from payroll invoices, to resumes, and even package-delivery notifications. Thankfully, the original Cryptolocker was shut down in 2014, but there are many other similar ransomware programs in the wild today like TorrentLocker, which uses Cryptolocker’s name to instill fear into its victims.

Though the ZeroAccess Rootkit and Cryptolocker go about attacking a system in different ways, they share many similarities in their motive, methods of payment, and infection techniques. First, their main function isn’t just to wreak havoc, but instead to generate revenue. ZeroAccess generates revenue by using a device’s memory to run revenue generating programs like click fraud. Cryptolocker also generated income, though it was directly from the user, not from ad-based revenue. Other similarities shared by both programs is that they both used bitcoin as a payment method and used email as a vessel to infiltrate systems. One could say that these two types of malware reflect overall trends in malware development. One such trend is high profit and high infection rate. Rapid response from white-hat groups and software companies make it more ideal for hackers to create malware that not only generates a lot of revenue, but also has a large outreach. This way, if the malware were to be obsolete in merely a month, the hacker would have generated enough capital to make the effort worth his time. As hackers need a discrete way to do business, cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin will likely continue to be preferred methods of payment between hackers and victims. Lastly, both of these programs are low maintenance in regard to upkeep by the hacker. Once these programs infiltrate a device, a hacker can just generate income passively, unless he chooses to become more involved with his victim’s device. Platforms for generating passive income are becoming more popular, even in places like malware markets. As we advance into the technologically superior future, malicious programs will become more elaborate, requiring hackers to have less experience and profits from malware like this to increase.

Malware has been a problem since the dawn of the internet and will continue to be a problem. However, cyber security professionals and society as a whole can learn from the weapons of the past to make todays defenses. 
