---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Computer Science and...
date: 2015-08-26
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

## My Childhood

Majroing in Compuetr Science was my way from my chilhood becasue of my parents.  Both of them graduated from Computer Sceince, and I grew up seeing them and thought I would walk the same path as my parents and major in Computer Science.  My father is working as a programmer in Japan since he graduated from a graduate school.  On the other hand, my mother got married right after she graduated and had never chance to work as a programmer or something related to computer science.  Therefore, I thought I would graduate with Computer Science degree, yet I would not need to be a programmer.  Also, I loved studing mathmatics and most subjects related to science, and with my parents' help, I was able to be surronded by high-tech environment such I always had my own laptop and desktop since I was 9. 

## Coming to America

After I graduated from high school in Japan, I decided to come to Hawaii to sutdy English as well as Computer Science.  The freshment year started with studying English, how to write, read and keep up being a college studnt in the United States.  I got used to the school system in Hawaii, so I started taking ICS classes from sophmore, which was a little late strat to be a Computer Science studnt.  I was not exepected to be that hard and struggle so much in the beginnig.  I questioned myself that I should be majoring in Computer Science or not.  Do I really love doing this?

With my parents' encouragement, I am still majoring in Computer Science and am a senior.  I have never felt "easy", but love learning new stuff and keep up with it.  Also, I met a professor who said to a class that, if time and moeny are not proble,, we should study not only Computer Science but also other fields which could be math, biology, physics, or something looks vary far field from Compuetr Science. 

## 

I am now starting to take a Software Engineering class. I hope to learn a lot through the course, but I know it will be just the beginning of my journey. By the time I’m done with it, I hope I’ve learned enough to take the next step in my life as a developer. But until then, my fire will keep on burning.
