---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Learning New Things
date: 2016-09-01
labels:
  - JavaScript
  - Computer Science
  - Learning
---

## Learning Javascript

I have been studing Javascript for about two weeks.  It has been fun learning a new language.  The first impression to Javascript was that it was similar to java or C/C++ which were the languages that I had leanered before.  Therefore, I did not have a negative thought to Javascript.  However, I learned that the genes for Java or C++ and Javascript were different.  Java and C++ came from Von Neuman architecture, and Javascript came form both Human-Computer symbopsos and Lambda calculus.  Because of this, Javascript can do more things than Java and C/C++ and is more interesting. One of the surprises is that we can put *anything* in an array in Javascript.  It is so cool!  I am looking forward to learn more about Javascript and play with it to find new interesting features that I can use.  

## Coming to America

After I graduated from high school in Japan, I decided to come to Hawaii to study English as well as Computer Science.  The freshman year started with studying English, how to write, read and keep up being a college student in the United States.  I got used to the school system in Hawaii, so I started taking ICS classes from the sophomore, which was a little late strat to be a Computer Science student.  I was not expected to be that hard and struggle so much in the beginning.  I questioned myself that I should be majoring in Computer Science or not.  Do I really love doing this?

With my parents' encouragement, I am still majoring in Computer Science and am a senior.  I have never felt "easy", but love learning new stuff and keep up with it.  Also, I met a professor who said to a class that, if time and money are not problems, we should study not only Computer Science but also other fields which could be math, biology, physics, or something looks very far field from Computer Science.  In fact, I love learning not only materials related to computer, but also sciences, literature, religions and so on.  His words enocuraged me to get involved in more other stuff that I passionate about.

## From Now On

Although there are a lot of requirements class in Computer Science, I tried to take other classes as well if possible.  I enjoyed a communication class, peace and conflict education, Hawaiian literature and history.  Currently, I am taking religion class as well.  Additionally, I am involved in Christian community and helping in many different ways such as helping PA system, powerpoints, being a member of worship team or leading some small groups.  

It looks I am doing totally unrelated things from Computer Science.  However, what we are learning in Computer Science could be a foundation of all those fields.  I believe that Computer Science has a potential of being any kinds of foundation and make those things better in some ways (depending on a programmer).  I would love to be a one, and put the perspective of Compter Science into the fields that I passionate about.
