---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Ready to Take a Dive in Configuration Management
date: 2016-09-15
labels:
  - Open Source Software
  - git
  - GitHub
  - Version Control
---


I am new to the configuration management world but so far I am enjoying and 
learning how to be a more efficient and social programmer.  The keyword here 
is "social".  It is very easy to get stuck in the undertow of solo homework 
assignments and projects with required deadlines.  I intend to dive in and 
submerse myself in the vast world of open source software and configuration 
management.  Previously, the only experience I had with GitHub was making an 
account so that I could browse through other programmer's repositories of data 
structures such as implementing ArrayLists, Doubly and Singly Linked Lists, 
Binary Search Trees, etc.  This research was all prompted through solo 
assignments for ICS 211 (Data Structures) at the University of Hawai'i at 
Manoa.  Now that we have learned some git and the real reason why people use 
GitHub, I plan to take advantage of this new knowledge and grow as a Software 
Engineer.

I am very happy and excited that we are learning these types of concepts in this 
class, ICS 314 Software Engineering I with Professor Philip Johnson because I believe 
it will really benefit us all in our upcoming careers.  I have yet to work on a 
project big enough in size to fully exercise the benefits of configuration 
management, but plan on starting a side project with some of my classmates to gain 
some experience with it.  The articles provided within our course has also gave me 
another perspective of how to carry oneself within the world of open source software, 
for there are codes of conduct and etiquette that should be followed if you are to 
have a positive networking experience.  My previous problem due to the lack of 
effective configuration management practices were exactly that, I did not have the 
knowledge of how it worked or how to use it.  Given these tools, I now have the 
ability to push my own updates of code I wrote to projects that others are currently 
working on!  So exciting!


From the perspective of a novice programmer that gained most of his education through 
the institution of the University itself, I feel that GitGub became popular with more 
experienced users because of git, but GitHub grows at a rapid rate because of 
beginners like me who find out that GitHub is a place where people store their own 
personal projects.  In conclusion, I believe they have a solid relationship that is 
hard to say which is responsible for the success of either.  Kind of the like 
"chicken and the egg" relationship! 
