2017-02-09.md
---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Code it Right
date: 2017-02-09
labels:
  - Coding Standard
---



Best coding practices are a set of informal rules that the software development community has learned over time which can help improve the quality of software.

Many computer programs remain in use for far longer than the original authors ever envisaged (sometimes 40 years or more), so any rules need to facilitate both initial development and subsequent maintenance and enhancement by people other than the original authors.

In Ninety-ninety rule, Tom Cargill is credited with this explanation as to why programming projects often run late: "The first 90% of the code accounts for the first 90% of the development time. The remaining 10% of the code accounts for the other 90% of the development time." Any guidance which can redress this lack of foresight is worth considering.

The size of a project or program has a significant effect on error rates, programmer productivity, and the amount of management needed.

"What happens before one gets to the coding stage is often of crucial importance to the success of the project."

The prerequisites outlined below cover such matters as:

    how is development structured? (life cycle)
    what is the software meant to do? (requirements)
    the overall structure of the software system (architecture)
    more detailed design of individual components (design)
    choice of programming language(s)

For small simple projects involving only one person, it may be feasible to combine architecture with design and adopt a very simple life cycle.