---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Final Project Idea"
date: 2019-03-26
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Meteor
---

<h1>CRAVE</h1>

<h2>Overview</h2>
<p>Have you ever wondered, where can i get the best burger in Hawaii? I want to find the best tasting Lau Lau money can buy. I want the most satisfying, appetizing, delicious deesert right now. But you don't know where to find it and don't wanna waste time trying different restaurant? I have an idea to create a website to erase one more problem people have while they are trying to pick place to eat. It'll be called <h4>Crave</h4></p>

<p>Crave will be an easy to use friendly website where people everyone can use and rate the top rated dishes at different restaurants. For the past week of spring break, i've been on a journey to find the best Lau Lau entree possible, venturing all over the island sampling Lau Lau from various places. Then i had a thought to myself, it would save a lot of time, money and fustration if someone had just made a website where i can easily search up popular revied food items. Now, you might think, "Oh, you should have been using Yelp." However, Yelp reviews the general overview of the restaurant. This website will mainly be used for those who want the best burger on the island, the best poke bowl, even a awesome fried rice. Also, people would be able to search up restaurants and search up the top rated foods and reviews. This would also be a great help for restaurant owners so they are able to adjust their menu accordingly to what fits their audience. This is especially good for full-time food critics and popular food reviewers, because they will be able to create a login page and post the best tasting foods/desserts that they had and also post real-time pictures of the foods they are eating instead of seeing a photoshoped advertisement on TV or other websites.</p>

<h2>Mockup page ideas</h2>
* Landing Page
* Log in page
* Main search page
* Profile page
* Admin Control Pages

<h4>Main Search Page</h4>
<p>Home page will display featured items to try, most recent reviews on entrees/desserts, food news page, subcription page where people are able to follow on their favorite food critics </p>
  
<h4>Main search page</h4>
<p>This page wold have different categories on popular food items to select, and different restaurants that people are allowed to browse the menu and sort by highest rated food item on their menu.</p>

<h4>Profile Page</h4>
<p>This page would be similar to any profile page like myspace and facebook, where they are able to see the reviews they made, post pictures of their foods.</p>

<h4>Admin Control pages</h4>
<p>Admins are allowed to log in and see everything other users are able to see and delete inappropriate content and ban users who aren't using the website properly</p>

<h2>Use case ideas</h2>
<h5>New user:</h5> 
Landing page --> log in --> set up profile --> Main Search Page
<h5>User:</h5> 
Landing page --> log in --> Main Search Page --> Interest Group Page OR Creation Page
<h5>Admin:</h5> 
Landing page --> log in --> Admin Control Page to edit site


<h2>Beyond the basics</h2>
* Students could also leave "Reviews" of past experiences with tips for future adventurers wanting to repeat that event.
* Allow companies who maybe want to offer group rates or student specials to UHM students to add event ideas.  They would have a different login, or would email admin directly.
* Login using UH CAS to guarantee that all users are UH students.


