---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E3 - Performing WODs
date: 2020-09-30
labels:
---
Invoice 1 (https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-invoice1.html) was the most recent WOD that I had completed. The WOD required us to code a page for an invoice for a purchase, as one might guess from the name. The invoice must contain at least five different products and the values on the page, other than the product information and tax rate, must be dynamic.

Before I start any WOD, I first go through all the instructions and information listen. For this WOD, it was written in the direction that we were allowed to inspect the page and use the coding for the invoice table, so that was what I did. All that's left is for me to list the values and make the invoice table dynamic. Overall it was pretty straight forward and I didn't have too much trouble. I would likely have struggled the most with creating the table, but we were allowed to copy from the page. Another thing I struggle with is differentiating between html and javascrip, knowing when I need to put down <script></script>, and the difference between scripting a whole block vs scripting just a section inside a line of code. 

To prepare for my WODs, I would first go through the requirements and check up on all codes/steps that I feel unfamiliar with. Then I would attempt to do a shortened version of the WOD (e.x. 2 products instead of 5) just to make sure I know what I am doing and that everything will go smoothly. If I get stuck, I would skim through the screencast for some hints/solutions and then try to understand what I am seeing before moving on. This is how I have always done my WODs and I find this to be the most efficient way for me. 

I could have gone through the readings and the labs during class to refresh my memory, but otherwise I think I have a good system going for my WODs. 
