---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1: UI Basic Technical Blog
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-10-09

---

When I first started BrowserHistory1, I thought that I would at least just barely be able to complete it under the DNF time. I was sorely wrong. I sat staring at my screen for a good 10-15 minutes just trying to decide which external links I wanted to use. So I finished the first attempt around 30 to 45 minutes (I set a timer for 25 minutes and after it went off I lost track of time). During my first attempt I tried to do the parts I know I could and when I got stuck I would refer to readings, the in-class lab, and eventually the screencast if I didn't get the result I was supposed to. During the screencast I would take notes on why certain tags were used and followed along, it helped me a lot with my next attempts. 
On my second attempt, I did pretty well, just barely made the 15 minute mark. I decided to use the same external links as I did in the first attempt since it took me so long to decide in the first place. It also helped that I vaguely remember what to do for each part. However, the only reason that this wasn't my last attempt was because my screen recording software only recorded my browser window. I used Window 10's game-bar assuming that it would record the whole screen instead of just one application (I feel like it would have been fine if it had only recorded the vs code since that's where all the important work is).
So on my third attempt, I pretty much remembered what kind of tags to use and it took me about 12 minutes. Hooray! Or not because I deleted the video on accident and uploaded the wrong one. 
My fourth and last attempt went pretty much the same as the third attempt but took me about 11 minutes instead. What really helped me with this WOD was doing it more than once even though I was already comfortable with we had to use(although in my case I had to do it more than once because of mistakes I made). 
For BrowserHistory2, it was surprisingly easier to do, but that might have to do with me not messing up the videos. On my first attempt I did everything in the order that I knew I could do. So I did the background color, font color, and the text width first. Everything else was stuff I wasn't as comfortable doing so I looked through the readings, in-class labs, and the screencast last (I also did the same thing like I did in the first WODS and followed along). This attempt took me over 20 minutes, I don't have the exact time since I used a timer instead of a stopwatch. 
The second attempt went pretty smoothly and I finished it at almost exactly 9 minutes (I also didn't mess up the video!). Like the previous WOD, the most helpful thing I did was doing the exercise more than once and mentally noting down what parts didn't go so well and how to fix it. 
Now on to BroswerHistory3. My first attempt went by like all my other first attempts, overtime. It took me a little over 20 minutes because I was fiddling with the margins and the placement of the navigation bar. I also followed along with the screencast whenever I got stuck which was really helpful. 
On to my second attempt. It was going pretty smoothly until I forgot that an id tag would be easier for me than a class tag for the navigation bar so I finished at a little over 10 minutes. 
Wanting to get an Rx I decided to redo it. This attempt also went pretty smoothly, I finished it in almost 6 minutes. And this obviously isn't the end of the essay so yes, I messed up the video again. The mic didn't record. 
Fourth time's the charm seems to be the thing for me since this was my final attempt and the video was safely uploaded. It took me a little under 5 minutes to finish the WOD. So the most important lesson I learned, check the videos more than once. 
