---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1: UI Basics Technical Essay
date: 2021-09-17
---

  For each of the BrowserHistory WODs, I would attempt to finish them on my own with no help, then if I could not complete it after the first attempt, I’d watch the screencast. Each WOD I was determined to get an “Rx” score, so I did each one until I got a time that was satisfactory.  

  BrowserHistory1 was probably the hardest and definitely took me the longest because it was the most complicated. Here, we had to create an html webpage through VS Code, and in my first attempt I could not even finish it without needing to watch the screencast. In my first attempt, I got stuck at creating the table of contents, as I was unsure how to properly format it with the correct tags. In my second attempt I was able to finish all the way through, but I did not get the time I wanted (I took about 25 minutes), so I did one final attempt which was satisfactory for me (just under 15 minutes). 

  The BrowserHistory2 was probably the easiest WOD out of the three for me to complete, and this is because before I started it, I looked up and took notes on the tags I thought would be used in the assignment. In this WOD, we were to edit the webpage we created in BrowserHistory1 and format it using CSS and Google Web Fonts. This one I was basically able to complete almost on my own, and I only struggled with the very end where we were supposed to format the logos to be inline with the text. For this step, I had to go to the screencast to complete. Because of this, my first attempt was around 20 minutes, then my last attempt, after practicing over and over, was close to 7 minutes. 

  BrowserHistory3 took me the most tries, and this was because I could not figure out how to move the Chrome paragraph to be in the middle of the IE and Firefox paragraphs. I ended up going around the problem by just moving the paragraph between the two paragraphs on VS Code, but it took me a few tries to figure that out. I did not really time my first few attempts because I wouldn’t even finish it before starting over. However, once I figured out how to get Chrome in the middle, my last attempt was around 7 minutes. 


