---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5
date: 2022-04-18
---

Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details
For Assignment 2, we were asked to upgrade the website we created in Assignment 1 by adding a registration form where users can enter data and make the website more personalized. 
What did you learn from this assignment?
I learned the most about debugging from this assignment. I had never debugged before Assignment 2, and I am really grateful I got the chance to learn how to debug because it is really helpful and efficient. 
Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).
I worked by myself for this assignment, and it took me about a week to complete. 
How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?
I needed the most help with how to start the post requests from the login and registration page, so I asked my friend who took the class semester for some help and she helped point me in the right direction. 
How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?
Assignment 2 and Assignment 1 were very different in the way they were difficult. Assignment 1 was difficult because I had no idea what I was doing for a long time and had to figure everything out from scratch. With Assignment 2, we luckily had Assignment 1 to start with as a foundation to build on, but also had a few unfamiliar elements. 
Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
I would estimate that I spent about 10% of my time thinking, then 45% writing code and 45% testing and debugging. 
Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?
I think I found this assignment more rewarding than Assignment 1. I had a better foundation and idea of how to start, and with my experience from Assignment 1 I could figure out how to solve most of my issues. My biggest challenge, as always, is paying attention to detail, which is so important in programming. 
If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?
If I could go back in time, I would definitely ask for more help from Professor Port instead of powering through by myself. I got the job done in time, but I definitely could have finished faster and with less stress if I asked for more help. 
