---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E3
date: 2021-09-09
labels:
  - essay
---

Maggie Mulhall
This WOD was Invoice 1 where we had to create a sales receipt of 5 different products and put them in a table using HTML. We then had to compute different values related to the sale such as taxes and totals. For this WOD, I fully tried the whole experience myself before watching the screencast. This really helped my confidence with JavaScript because I could do a lot more of it on my own than I thought I could. Last time when working with the browser history WODs, I tried to do them my self but I really didn’t get that far before turning to the screencast. However this time, the WOD was closer to the coding I have done in the past in Python, so I could do most of it. I did get very stuck on making the grand totals bold, however. I knew that I could use the <b> tags to make the text bold but making the live grand total value and then printing it in bold really threw me for a loop. I had to look to the screencast for that answer a few times before I could implement it in my own code. 

This WOD took me about an hour total to learn and record, which was a lot less than the previous ones. I found that using JavaScript to compute values was my favorite part because I almost felt like I was writing the back end of an excel spreadsheet; I could create live variables and change their values as I went through the exercise. I also didn’t wait until the last minute on this WOD which definitely took the stress away and actually allowed me to work more efficiently. Next time, however, I will be more careful with opening and closing tags. I would open a tag, for example <script> and then forget to close it later, which really messed up my other code as I was writing. More attention to detail on the next exercise should prove to be beneficial to me in this process.
