---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4: Progress in Programming Report"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-10-10
labels:
  - E4
  - Assignment 1
---

1. My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:
At the start of this course, I had no idea how to code. I was completely lost in all honesty. There was a large learning curve, but not I believe I have a basic understanding of the fundamentals of coding. Because I was able to create a working website for Assignment 1, I was very happy and pleased to see how it all came together.

2. I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:
When doing most of my assignments, I made a lot of careless errors like forgetting paranthesis or forgetting the html code for a specific action. Something I need to work on to improve would be remembering and maintaining what I've learned so far in this class by continually practicing coding. My goal is to be able to do these assignments in the future without having to reference back as much.

3. I can do the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first:
For the beginning WODs, at this point in time, I believe I could do the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first because we have built upon the things we learned in the initials WOD assignments. However, if I am being completely honest, I would probably make a few errors in the later WODs and may have to reference back to the screencast solutions to assist in the later WODs that are more in depth.

4. The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence.
The labs have been extremely beneficial in my learning for this course and MIS in general. It has allowed me to get a grasp of the basic fundamentals and test them out. Most of the labs I understand, but some of them I lack confidence in. Server-side processing does still confuse me (Lab 13), but I think with more practice like as with the other concepts, I will be able to do them confidently in the future.

5. I feel ready I am ready to work on the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications like Assignment 1).
Although I was able to do Assignment 1, it took a lot of time and was very difficult trying to put everything together. I feel like I am ready, but I need to build more confidence and have more practice.

6. I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:
The class could be improved by possibly having different types of assignments to test our skills.

7. These are things that work really well for my learning in this class:
WOD screencasts and labs were very helpful in my preparation when learning in this class. It helped me to get a understanding of the concepts before class so I could following along more easily.
