---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Assignment 2 Reflection
date: 2019-12-04
labels: 
  - E5
---

__Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details.__

The assignment is an e-commerce web app in which you can order different packages of camping equipment at any quantity. Once you submit the quantities you desire those values are validated. If valid you get sent to the login page, if invalid the server re-routes you to the index page with sticky quantities and error messages. At the login page you have the option to login or move to the register page. If you login with valid username and password you will get sent to an invoice page that prints out a receipt. If you fail to input proper usernames or passwords you will be be rerouted to the login page with an appropriate error message. If you decide to register an account you simply input the data into each box, if valid your account will be created, automatically log you in and route you to the custom invoice page. If invalid you get re-routed to the registration page with your sticky inputs and error messages. 

__What did you learn from this assignment?__

I learned that not everything you need to do needs to be done in a certain manner. I’ve learned how to better transfer data from one page to another.  I feel as if I have a more wholesome understanding of client server communication as well. Fundamentally I have realized that commuter programming is really really stupid and the challenge is to actually build an intelligence or something that is percieved as intellegent. 

__Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).__

No partner

__How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?__

My sole source of help stemmed from Professor Port. Without his aid my project would be in shambles. I needed help in many situations such as; data validation, query building, error flags and pulling making use of functions inside of loops. 

__How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?__

This was different because of the number of stages that you have to go through and the need for you to add information to a file and store it for later. Other than that It seemed to be a repeat of the same kind of process with the exception of a security tag and additional data validation. 

__Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging.__

I spent most of my day thinking about how to do one thing ten different ways and trying to figure out which way will be the easiest to code. Understanding what I needed and wanted to happen came easy however actually putting it to code was much harder as I still lack the necessary syntax fluency. Every line of code I wrote was tested with console.log diagnostics to I would have an understanding of what was actually happening and how the data was moving. This process took many many hours of each day. 

__Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?__

Creating sticky inputs and calling on them turned out to be fairly easy and worked well. On the other hand I tried dynamically creating variable names within a loop and that proved to be just out of my experience capability. I kept getting close but would hit a roadblock and be too angry to push forward and instead tackle it from a different angle. Instead I should have just stuff with the original plan instead of looking for an easier way. It did me well to start as early as I did, and left many opportunities to ask for help and receive insight from Port. I recommend jumping on the assignments as soon as they are released. Also don't write to many lines of code before testing what you have. If you wait and test after you’ve written 30 lines of code you'll probably have a hard time finding what went wrong when an error occurs. Code short, check quick, minimize confusion.

__If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?__

I would have completely skipped trying to generate variable names dynamically on the server and sending them to the client. This was a silly waste of my time as I could have kept what I was trying to do on the client side without altering the servers own validation. Other than that I think I did the best I could do. I started early, worked on it whenever I found time and visited the professor frequently for help. Carrying out those three led me to a completed project and I can’t complain. For those seeking advice make this triad what you eat sleep and breathe for optimum results. 
