Ethics is a term that encompasses the idea that there are many choices in the world, but there are only some that are "right." Now what 
is right? Being right has no definitive answer, it can only be described as doing good for yourself and for others. In software engineering, 
ethics plays a tremendous roll on what is expected from every engineer. Ethical decisions must be made with regards to every person 
involved so the outcome is right by all sides. In the world and in engineering, outcomes like this may not be possible, so it is an engineer's
duty to try to make the most ethical choice possible, even though it can ruin one's work or reputation. Software engineers shall commit themselves to make their line of work a respectable and commendable profession. 
Privacy has become a huge concern in software engineering due to the ethical boundries that have been crossed. The case study that involved Google Street View has become a famous affair that many people believe is unethical. To decide what is and what isn't unethical, we must first understand the views and motives that lead the issue. 
In 2007, Google created a technology that released sensitive information that the public deemed an invasion of human privacy. Photos and information were identified as a breach of privacy, yet Google was reluctant to remove any discriminating information. Google Street View was not made to encourage criminal activity, or show unwanted attention, but create an innovative feature to help thousands. 
In 2010, Google was discovered to have intentionally stealing private information from the public through unencrypted Wi-Fi networks. This was a complete disregard and breach of privacy rights which did not go unpunished.
Google knew that in both cases, they were invading people's privacy. It was completely unethical to violate the public's trust and steal and misuse private information. Their mission was not to disrupt or harm the public, but to futher advance their goal and push the limits of their own technological capabilities. That being said, Google was still in the wrong, pursuing obscure objectives that were clearly unethical.
In a profession like software enginnering, ethics should not be a choice, it is an obligation every person must uphold when regrading the issue at hand.
