---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: UI Basics
date: 2019-09-28
labels: 
  - WODs
---

So it turns out that I actually did quite an extensive amount of HTML practice over the summer to prepare for this class so Browser History 1 and 2 were fairly simple. Through Broswer History 2 however I did learn about linking the Google font packages. This was very eye openning as the possibilities of styling seems to grow exponentially. After completeing both WODs well below DNF I would watch the screencast anyway to ensure that I hadnt missed something or could potentially learn a faster way to do the same tasks. In light of this, Browser History 3 gave me an intense amount of stress. I set up all the components of the page correctly and under DNF time yet the third column would not line up properly with the other two. Due to this I DNF'd hard. This was extremely frustrating as I scoured through my code numerous times with no avail. The screencast also provided no relief as the solutions they offered had already been implemented. I tried going out of the box and simply inputing recommended commands from VS Code that sounded like they would solve the problem. I altered the padding, margins, alignments etc, again to no avail. It took three different websites and a really long article on floats to finally find the solution. Instead of simply listen to the professors about floats I had come to an understanding of how floats actually worked with eachother and interacted with the page as a whole. Instead of floating one element left, the other right and jamming one in the middle with margins editing you simply had to float each element to one direction, cut off the excess and they would line up like peas in a pod. This learning experience was extremely aggrivating but it showed me that the solutions are out there and that many people have been in the same place as me and come out of it. I also learned that most of the solutions I am looking for are extremely simple, after all the computer itself is stupid and I just need to know the command to control it. The biggest take away from these tasks was to actually seek understanding of the code and what each command means and how they affect eachother. Simply memorizing what to input for the reason of ,"well thats what you put when you want to do this..." is a sure fire way of ending up in the middle of your coding adventure without a fundamental understanding of what you are doing. This becomes a problem when the material gets starts to pick up and you have to rely on an "understanding" of the elements you're using to create something meaningful. Thanks
